Dear audience, listening to the sutra,
each time I listen, I feel a desire to
practice, and I have
aspirations because I see the
purity, the
nobility, the benefit. So,
just reading the beginning of the sutra, "At
that time, the Buddha was in assembly with
many monks, and at that time,
Bodhisattvas were also present," is enough to inspire
me to strive diligently. I
don't need anything more, because every person
has aspirations, and
aspirations don't come immediately
in reality except for stealing, right,
dear friends? Stealing means seeing something on the
table and putting it in your pocket.
But noble aspirations take time to be
fulfilled. Therefore, I will choose the
highest aspiration, and I will pursue it for as long as it takes,
rather than a wish that is only fulfilled little by little, and then
disappears. So, I will choose the
highest aspiration, and
when I read
that aspiration, I will see my purpose.
Seeing my future, seeing
my nobility,
whenever I read about it,
I feel completely immersed in it. Not yet a
Bodhisattva, but I'm basically
integrated into that stream. Then
I no longer crave
anything else in this world, I don't desire anything at all. I do
n't
wish for anything; my only wish is to reach the gathering place of the noble ones in the three thousand great worlds, to befriend the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, no matter how many lifetimes it takes. I'm not preoccupied with worldly matters, no matter how much hardship I face, I'm content. Isn't that right, everyone? Every
wish requires
a process of
practice to achieve
it. The important thing is what you wish for, and what distinguishes people is what they wish for. When someone has a wish, they will gradually reach the point of achieving it.
But someone who wishes for whatever pleasure they find will never
achieve anything; their
wish will never succeed.  Is it really true, everyone? There's
nothing
we feel like,
that wish is so fragile, it will never come
true like in this world. Dear fellow
practitioners, you see, how many people get rich
as they wish? Even if you wish for something in this
world, it won't come true. But
the wish to become a
Buddha, a saint, a Bodhisattva – that's a wish,
it's easy to get. But time is a factor, and we only
know how long it will take, what the
task will be, and what the work will be.
That's clear, knowing the
work, the time, and the result beforehand.
But in this world, who
knows how much time is involved,
what the work will be, or what the result will be? It's
all vague, like
calculating the crab in the hole –
one hole, three crabs. Therefore, wishes
often fail. We only find
happiness when we're in a fantasy, a
fantasy, because the reality is
very difficult. But when
we wish to become a saint or a Buddha, we
know we are...  Right in the present moment, when
we overcome a single thought of desire, we
know the result immediately. Is
n't that right? As for the other thing, we don't
know where it will lead or what the result will be.
But we know that in
this practice, we are simply overcoming all
thoughts of desire. So today, we
only need to overcome one thought to know we've taken
a step forward.
If we make a mistake,
we repent, and we take another step. The
mistake isn't a sin; repentance is the next step. That's
very insightful, esteemed Great Friends.
Therefore, every day we do
good deeds. If we make a mistake, we repent.
The mistake is no longer considered;
repentance is the good deed, and
that repentance is the next step.
Therefore, we live with purpose, we
live with results every day,
so we are happy. All other desires are
uncertain, vast and boundless,
even death is uncertain, but if
we have a clear purpose, we know
clearly that after death, we will continue our practice on the
path.  Next, and this new place
will be a higher level of merit than the specific place. Is it because
we
know beforehand that we never feel sad,
never suffer, and never are unemployed?
Until we become Buddhas, there will be even
more things to do, and we will be very happy. So, it's
like Uncle Ho's army; even though it's hard work, it's
very fulfilling because we are aiming
for victory, and we are also
aiming for victory, so we
succeed. So, whoever doesn't have a dream should
dream. Whoever has a dream that isn't right should
dream correctly. Some of you
great friends have dreams, so you must dream of something meaningful,
right? If it has
beautiful and high results, then let's just
begin a little. Now, I
invite the congregation to clasp hands and recite the Buddha's name.
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni.
[Music] Dear all, the more I
travel, the more I
see that
our Buddhist followers are truly, truly,
each and every one of them is trying very
hard.  The most difficult thing to do is to
conquer one's desires and unwholesome thoughts. That is the
hardest thing to do. The
Buddha also taught that even conquering thousands of
enemy soldiers on the battlefield is not
equal to conquering oneself. That is the ultimate victory.
We can achieve a
lot because of fame, because of this desire for fame,
because of this attachment to fame. We can do a
lot, but if we eliminate even one
thought of fame, it will take a very long time,
months and years, before it begins to lessen a
little. Because as long as we still have the thought of fame,
the desire for it, our inner selves will be
very weary, right?
Whatever we do, we only
get joy in our hearts,
right? For example, we wish for
a beautiful car, but if that beautiful car
doesn't bring joy in our
hearts, then what is the point of wishing for it? The
great possessions in this world are connected to the inner self.
Joy is a kind of affliction, for
example, the affliction of envy for not having a
beautiful car, right? Therefore, we must
strive with all our might to get a beautiful car and then
eliminate it.  If we get rid of that desired affliction, we
will find joy. Having a beautiful car is one thing, but is that
joy difficult to attain? And
will it increase next time? And will that
joy give rise to more evil and
unwholesome actions? No, but
when we focus our minds on the right direction, we
just need to focus on whether we still have this bad habit,
this bad habit, and resolutely
eliminate it. That's called living mindfully.
Each time we eliminate a little, do
we feel joy? Is it joyful, fellow
practitioners? That's the joy of those who know how to practice.
Respectfully, dear friends, when we
focus on a bad habit of ours, and
then we try to practice for a
while, we bring everything back to it to
eliminate it.
When it has already happened, then we
sit down and look back to repent and confess.
Then, after a long time of practice, a
similar event occurs, and we find that our
thoughts and actions are
completely different. At that time, we sit down and think back to how
tiring and exhausting it was before.  Naturally, joy and happiness arise.
Before, we had to endure suffering, but
now we have this happiness. It's truly, truly joyful.
Therefore, the joy in practice comes from overcoming desires, karmic actions, and
unwholesome thoughts and
evil deeds. It's very joyful, very happy.
Each of us can
experience this happiness in
practice by identifying a bad habit
and focusing our attention on eliminating
it until it's gone. Gradually, we become very
happy. If a practitioner doesn't
identify a bad habit, or if
we are acting unlawfully, or if we don't
know how to practice the Dharma, we
must find the point that
most affects us, the one that affects us the most.
Find it and focus on
correcting it, whether in our work or in our
mind. The results won't take long. Just be
mindful like that for a few months, and you
will reduce a bad habit
noticeably. That's what
true happiness is, and the Buddha called it placing the
mind in the right direction.  It means we should direct our minds towards
happiness. If we
only seek external things, that's called
directing our minds in the wrong direction, and it will lead to
suffering. The practice of mindfulness shows
that most Buddhists, especially lay
practitioners,
have learned to look inward.
Only when we know how to look inward can we be
called practitioners. Those who
don't know how to look inward are not yet practitioners; they
know nothing about Buddhist teachings. We keep learning,
learning, and reading, but only when we
know how to turn inward can we begin to
practice. Practicing means cultivating and
refining the mind. The community, and to some extent, the
mind of the practitioners, sees that lay practitioners in our temples are
almost
achieving a certain reputation,
having both name and substance, not just having a name without substance.
As practitioners and lay practitioners,
we must have a certain essence so that
when we say, "I respectfully address the Buddha, I
am a lay disciple," it must be true.
Otherwise, if we stand before the
Buddha and say that, the Dharma Protectors
beside him... If there are Dharma Protectors in the temple...
The masters said, "Stop lying,
my child."
They said, "From morning till night, for
30 days a month, have you ever looked inward? You have
n't looked inward, you haven't
corrected your mind.
What kind of lay disciple are you? Is that right?" So, when
I say this, "I respectfully ask the
Buddha, I am a lay disciple of the Buddha.
I practice, but sometimes I increase, sometimes I decrease,
sometimes I'm lazy, sometimes I'm diligent, sometimes I
progress, sometimes I regress." But even so, is
that still the truth? If you don't practice at
all, day and night, morning and evening, you don't
look inward, you don't know
what evil or unwholesome thoughts you have
in your mind, you don't pay attention and correct
anything, sins upon sins,
completely deluded. Then, it seems that
bearing that label is called a
fake. Isn't that right? The person who values ​​the label of lay disciple
scolds me like that, saying, "Isn't that a
fake? A counterfeit, a fake, a counterfeit, a
fake, because you only wear the lay disciple's robe,
but the real thing inside is not real.
No, now, who here
wants me?"  To be truly honest, raise your
hand. Surely, everyone wants to be honest, right?
No one wants to be dishonest,
right? It has to be honest, meaning
words match actions and deeds.
You can't just say one thing and do another.
People in this world,
if they have five faults, in a single
moment they'll become ten
because they argue about everything,
never looking at their inner thoughts. They even
cover up their mistakes. Isn't that five becoming ten
in just a moment? For example, if they have
five faults, and you point them out, they'll argue about all five. So,
in this world, sins and faults
double, becoming ten, even three times. For
example, a husband and wife live
together, but if one thinks about lying and then lies, isn't that a triple
sin?
One thought
and one word. Isn't that a triple sin? Five
becomes ten! But
what about our lay Buddhist followers? When we make a
mistake, we start agonizing over whether to lie or
tell the truth.  Telling the truth or lying? Telling the truth? So, at that
time, those two guys,
if it increased by half, and in the end
I said I lied, and I lied,
it increased by three. But in that
three-fold increase, it also decreased a little because there was
the thought of whether to tell the truth or not, whether to
tell the truth or not, whether to tell the truth or not. That is, it
decreased a little. Although in the end I
still lied, it decreased a little.
You see, right? Because in it there
is still the light of fear of karma, there
is still some mind directed towards the
truth. And if the other one, there is not
a single bit of mind directed towards the truth, right?
Not a single bit of mind directed towards the
truth, but it increased by three, but it probably
only increased by 2.5. Anyway, it's still
lying, but it decreased a little. And in most
thoughts,
I will tell the truth, so my sin
is one, and when I repent,
sometimes it's gone, sometimes only a
little bit remains. Then, when I do some
good deed, it's gone,
right? That's how Buddhists are.  Are you
noble, esteemed friends? You are very noble,
so the mind of the Han-Quan temple praises you, esteemed
friends, for this nobility.
This nobility—I'm not saying you're
noble in the eyes of the world, but you are the
most noble among all the countless cycles of reincarnation, is
n't that
right? We don't know the number of
our reincarnations, do we? This life
is the most precious, isn't it? Knowing how
to cultivate is the most precious thing. We don't compare ourselves to
the world, only to ourselves. So, the
mind of the Han-Quan temple hopes that you, esteemed friends,
will progress further on the path of
cultivation. The time in our lives is
so short. Now,
esteemed friends, at this age, even the youngest, do
we still feel a little bit of the lingering
happiness, the lingering joy of
past lives?
No one can
feel it anymore. If we could feel
it, that feeling would replace
all our troubles in the
modern world. If that feeling could replace it, then...  When
we're sad, we try to replace that feeling of joy with something else to ease the sadness, but it can't replace it, it can never replace it. We can only live in the present moment. For example, we were very happy just now, but now we're
annoyed. The joy we felt before
is meaningless, isn't that right, everyone?
So we can only live
in the present moment. That's why
the Buddha said this: "Don't dwell on the past, don't
seek the future, don't yearn for it. Abide
in the present moment." That is Nirvana, that is,
peace and
tranquility. I'm
sharing this with you, dear friends, about
this matter. We should live and we should also
observe a little. Only by
observing will we see the
fear we have. What we fear is not having
money, not having a job, not having food,
not having
clothes. That's not the
real fear, dear friends. That's not something to be afraid of.
For example, if a
splinter gets stuck in your hand, it
hurts, but we're not as afraid
as if a knife cuts us,
right?  My fellow practitioners, if a
splinter gets stuck in your hand, does it hurt? Compared to
normal, it hurts a lot. Now, if you suddenly ask, "
Does it hurt if a bamboo splinter gets stuck in your hand?", and you
say, "It hurts a lot,"
then imagine someone holding a large knife
and saying, "I'll chop it for you," and you say, "
Okay, I'll take the splinter and stick it in your hand." Is that right, is
n't it, esteemed fellow practitioners? But
when we have a splinter in our hand, we
feel very scared, we don't want the splinter to be
stuck in our hand. So,
the worries about food, clothing, and money—have we ever
felt fear? But it's just a
splinter stuck in your hand compared to the suffering of birth and death, esteemed fellow
practitioners. Compared to this suffering of birth and
death, you
must contemplate the suffering of birth and death. That
's a truth. For example, from childhood,
we experience pain, and as we grow older, the
pain is the same. Is the pain the same? Even in old age, the
pain remains the same, isn't it? That
means pain never disappears. Sadness,
when we are young, we are sad, and when we grow up, we are
sad. Is the sadness the same?
The Buddha taught that the emotional states of
sentient beings are
unchanging, only suffering and happiness, and neither
suffering nor
happiness, exist in the mind of sentient beings. In the cycle of rebirth, it is
only seven kinds of mind: love, hate, joy, and sorrow.
Is it not like I only have
love and no hate? If only there were always
one kind of mind present at each moment, it would be better, wouldn't it?
But this is the mind. In the cycle of
rebirth, therefore, as humans, we
also suffer these seven kinds of mind, and as animals, we also suffer these seven
kinds of mind. The only difference is which kind of
mind lasts the longest.
For example, as animals, the suffering is the longest. For example, if we are an animal
living in the forest, if we are born into one of the three
evil paths,
imagine having
five lice on our head. Can we
sleep?
Can we sleep? The lice bite and itch
terribly. Or our body is covered
in a patch of scabies. It grows a little on our
back, in a place we can't scratch. Isn't it
painful to be unable to
scratch?  Everything is
suffering, but once we are
reborn as animals, the anger
sprouts everywhere, and it's so numerous,
even more numerous than ants in the forest.
We think we are reborn as animals.
We have to be reborn as animals because
we are in the cycle of reincarnation. Don't
say, "I won't have another rebirth as an animal." So, the feeling
we experience when bitten by a fish is the same feeling we have
when we are in another group;
it increases, the feeling doesn't disappear. Although the
form is different, whether it's a person or an object, or the
mind's perception of pain, the feeling of
pain is the same as the pain you feel, dear fellow practitioners.
The feeling doesn't change, the suffering doesn't change.
Thinking about that,
do you feel scared? Do you feel scared? Extremely scared, very scared,
not just normally scared. The pain
we feel when we are bitten is the same as the pain a
fish feels, the pain a
chicken feels. The pain we feel when we are stripped bare, the pain we feel when our
hair is pulled out, people pull out
our hair while we are alive, the pain a chicken feels when
its feathers are pulled out is the same.  The feeling of suffering is
unchanging. If a Buddhist practitioner does
n't contemplate this, they will
never progress. They
must contemplate the suffering of reincarnation because
this is the truth, a truth that no one
can deny. Therefore, if
you do any evil or
unwholesome deed, the karmic consequences will fall directly
upon you, not anywhere else.
It falls directly upon you, just
like when someone chews a piece of food, once
it goes down their throat,
it goes into their own intestines, not
into someone else's. So, as long as
we live,
if we do evil, whether it
's a thought, a word, or an
action, the karmic consequences will fall upon us. That's
why I, Han Quan, tell you,
dear fellow practitioners, that we shouldn't do evil for anything, for
anyone, or for any reason. It's not because of the
karmic consequences we must suffer, but
because of
money. That money can only sustain us in
this life; it may not last a
lifetime. But it will affect the three evil paths.  Look, we must
suffer, esteemed friends. Look at
those whales; their bodies are covered in barnacles.
Every day we think, "There are some that cling to us,
biting us like leeches."
Now, try this: your whole body is covered in leeches. Is
n't that disgusting? The barnacles
live on the whale's fluids. The
whale grows barnacles all over itself. Is
n't that scary?
We just glance at it, oh my, we
must think deeply, put ourselves in its place,
put our feelings into its, and we will be just like
it, no different.
Because we are animals, we have to be like that. That's
not even mentioning the cannibalism.
That's just considering the disease of the self. The
other day, I, Han Quan,
saw an article about a hippopotamus. The
writer just
wrote that, they didn't know about the
suffering of reincarnation. But the hippopotamus
has this suffering, esteemed friends:
its skin can't stand sunlight, it
can't stand the climate on land, its
skin...  It can tolerate the climate on
land, but it has to be submerged in water. However,
its food is grass on land;
it can't eat grass or fish and shrimp
underwater, so it has to run ashore to
eat. But its skin can't
tolerate the sunlight up there, so it...  She eats
greedily, then she has to run down and
immerse herself in the
water. Then she lives underwater, she
can't breathe the air,
she can't swim underwater, so she has to
surface to breathe. But she only
surfaces for a little while before she gets afraid of the
light and has to dive back down. So
her life is so hard, so miserable, so full of suffering. She does
n't get a single delicious bite. If she eats something
delicious, she'll burn herself to death.
So even if she's eating a piece of grass, she
has to run down to the water to
immerse herself, otherwise she'll burn herself to death. It's just
like me. Standing
near the stove, my skin burns. I
can't eat a single
delicious bite. She's swimming down there, and even if she wants to
go a long distance, she can't
swim because she has to surface to breathe. If she stays surfaced and swims, she ca
n't swim for long because her
head will burn, her scalp will be burned. Do you
see how miserable she is? I'm like that. Even without practicing, it's the same.
Now, I just think like
this: My dear friends, just...  Just think about it: sitting
in a room, it's freezing outside, you'd freeze to
death. But you
can't breathe inside, so you run outside to breathe, then
run back in. Isn't that suffering? That's called the
suffering of reincarnation, and we're sure to
fall into all kinds of realms if we
don't achieve
liberation. If we don't truly think
about cultivating virtue, it's
very miserable. Many other species
suffer just as much, and we haven't even
grasped that yet. People write things like that, and it
seems fun, but when I read it, I'm
scared. Now, how is it that being
born as a human is determined by our words, our thoughts, and
our actions?
Doing evil, thinking evil, harming people, harming
animals, harming living beings—how can you harm them?
The karmic retribution is waiting there. Isn't that terrifying, dear fellow
practitioners? It's terrifying. Now, do
you all like to compete and argue about right and wrong?
I don't like to compete and argue about right and
wrong. If I'm wrong, I'll quickly
admit my fault. If others are wrong, I'll
quickly forgive them
because it's all for my sake. Isn't that right, fellow
practitioners? Oh, so you're like to be a hippopotamus? Is it okay to be a hippopotamus
when you're talking about competition?  This way of speaking, that way of
speaking, that's inconsistent. So the hippo
runs off to eat in one place, breathes in one place, maybe not even
knowing
which place it belongs to. Isn't that suffering,
dear fellow practitioners? But it
all comes from within our minds. It's outside our minds
that creates sentient beings. We study
Buddhism and understand it this way, so we fear the
precepts of Buddha: we must uphold them, practice, and
look inward to transform our minds. We shouldn't strive for superiority or superiority,
or strive for victory. Only when we ourselves achieve something can we truly be
called "achieved,"
transforming our minds and gaining something. What else can we gain out there,
how many years will we live? If karmic retribution comes,
how many lifetimes of suffering will we endure? It's
very painful, dear fellow practitioners. On the surface of the mind, I urge you all to
strive
harder, for ourselves, not just for
ourselves. This life is impermanent, it passes by so
quickly. Even the youngest of us have 30
years. 20 years of life, isn't that right? In the blink of an
eye, it's over.  What does it feel like? It's already
30, then in the blink of an eye, it's
40, then it starts to reach 60, and then it
can't blink anymore because it hurts so much.
Every day it's like that. In youth,
time flies by so quickly because you're
healthy. You don't think about anything, but when you start to get
sick, you can't blink because the
days are long. A long, drawn-out night of pain, unable to sleep. The sky never brightens, isn't it? The time of suffering is always longer than the time of enjoying happiness. We feel joy for two or three days, and we think it goes by quickly, but
sadness in one morning, do you think it's
long? Is it long, dear friends? The worry
only lasts for a short time, an hour
is enough to kill us.
Now, all you dear friends sitting here,
hearing that your child has been kidnapped, is an hour long, dear
friends? Is it long?
Very long, like yesterday, the
Han Quan meditation session also had similar experiences. At the
Han Quan meditation session, the dear friends
came and talked about the circumstances of
their children. I empathized right away.
Empathy now, even
more empathy for this time of suffering. How long is this,
Venerable Masters? It's very long, incredibly
long. So we only have a
few decades left. If we don't seize this opportunity to
use this body to
cultivate ourselves, we'll be exhausted. We'll be close to the Buddha but
gain nothing. Therefore,
we should focus our minds on contemplation. I sincerely hope that
all of us, especially the great assembly, will be
most afraid of reincarnation. The greatest fear is reincarnation, because even if we are born
as humans, in this life we ​​may live in a
peaceful country, and in another life we ​​may fall into
war. Is it only
rare and precious to be born as a human?
As humans, we can still fall
into peace in this life and
war in the next. In this life we ​​may live in a place with
good weather and climate, and in another life we ​​may live in a harsh
climate. Isn't that right,
Venerable Masters? It's very painful, so we
must think about the suffering of reincarnation, not
just suffering. I'm here eating rice like this,
I'll go out there and make something for
myself to eat so I can feel better, so I can be more comfortable. I
don't understand anything about that, is that right? I do
n't understand anything about it, right?  Those who
become monks are those who must
awaken to the suffering of reincarnation. Not only
that, they also see their lives as a
long and arduous cycle of suffering. Remember,
we must examine the suffering of reincarnation. Only then can we truly
understand the feelings we cherish. It's
not just feelings that do
n't change throughout the cycles of reincarnation;
feelings don't change, only
the physical form changes.
For example, an
animal's anger is like that; its entire being is angry.
Humans are the same; anger leads to
bloodshed, right? Because
that anger is like
the energy, like fire. When it's hot,
it pushes the energy upwards. That initial anger pushes through
your hands and feet, you can't stand it, your mouth, your eyes, your
skin is all torn. That initial anger is so
strong it makes your eyes widen, your mouth gape open, your
arms and legs
flail about. Doesn't that resemble the
fire itself, dear friends? That's how initial
anger is. Therefore, as long as we remain
in this cycle of reincarnation, everything about
us remains the same, dear
friends.  With mindful contemplation, you've seen things that are
a little scary, haven't you? Don't be afraid of being hungry one day and
full the next. That's not
scary at all, it's reincarnation that's
scary, so we must think about
reincarnation. At this age, 16, wow, you think
you're the most beautiful in the world, in the blink of an eye
you're 30, in the blink of an eye you're 40, 50, and then you're going to show off to the elders. Back then, you were
called the most beautiful in the neighborhood, you were like a
barrel tilting and spilling water, right?
The elders are beautiful now, just
look and see. So we say that in the past, before
knowing the Buddha's teachings, we were just thinking about illusions.
Now that we know the Buddha's teachings, we
see that things change every year, so let's reduce
illusions. Isn't that right? Let's
turn back and find the
true value, true happiness. So, with
mindful contemplation, I hope that our esteemed fellow practitioners, when we
go out to the temple, will
have the full capacity for contemplation. For example, when it's
raining and you see a worm coming up, you think, "You're
not home, you should go out and
play." That's not knowing how to contemplate. It's where it is.
It was raining, it was flooded, so it
suffocated and had to crawl to the surface. When the
worm crawled to the surface, it got
burned, and it didn't have enough strength to move,
so it was eaten by ants. That
is, the worm was usually eaten alive, killed alive
by many ants, many heart-shaped stingers.
We are all affected by this. If any fellow practitioner gets bitten by five ants,
do you see the scriptures? The scriptures?
But the worm trembles when it's bitten. It's not that
it's
happy to meet the ants. It's not that
it's trembling, happy to meet the ants, or dancing, but it's in pain.
The feeling of pain is no different from our own.
We only have five ants, we struggle, but
this is a whole swarm. We don't have the strength to describe
the suffering, and the feeling lasts until
death. That's enough. So we
look at things to see ourselves, not to
see for joy. That's what people call
skillful observation,
true observation, just looking at everything,
especially us. Whenever we focus our minds on
observing, we hope that we can see the
natural death of an animal.  The
natural death of an animal is painful; it
struggles from side to side. For example, a
spoonbill or a cuckoo. One day,
while meditating at
night, I heard a flapping sound, then a flapping sound
again.
I didn't understand what it was. Later, I
kept walking back and forth, and I still heard the sound. It turned
out that I had seen it since I arrived. I've been practicing meditation for a
long time. I still see it. It turns out it was a
butterfly. The butterfly is in the process of dying.
Normally, it just struggles and keeps struggling.
We have to capture the scene of
natural death, the pain, the agonizing pain. Is
it similar to our own
agonizing pain? Because we humans, when
we feel pain, we
immediately seek painkillers. Isn't it true that if someone else
soothes it, the animal doesn't just endure it
until death? That feeling is exactly the same as
ours, not a little bit different.
So people must know that this is
a truth. When we don't know
the truth, the Buddha calls us ignorant.
What is ignorance? It is not knowing the truth
about the self and the surrounding world, not
knowing the truth about oneself and the surrounding world,
not knowing anything at all. Therefore, the
mind must be diligently cultivated, dear fellow practitioners. Quickly
contemplate, quickly amend
your mind. You must think about the suffering of samsara, dear fellow
practitioners. Be more diligent, we must be more diligent,
everyone must be more diligent, then
we will bring about a
peaceful lay life. Isn't it true that if there is no
fault, then fault is easily acknowledged? It's
very easy, we will
live better lives, not just better
for anyone else, but better for ourselves. I
sincerely hope that we will live each day with
more love and closeness, forming
Dharma connections
with each other in the right way.
Those who have the aspiration to become monks/nuns
will increase their faith and raise their
aspirations. Those who have not yet made the
vow to become monks/nuns will strive to do so.
Those who have passed the age for becoming monks/nuns should strive diligently in their duties. I
dedicate this
merit
to the entire community and to
all disciples.  death
and birth
[music]
all
choose to
become
Buddhas
[music]
path